https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-16898 (#7584)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: business_continuity/backup_restore/backup_configure_virtualization.adoc

Reviewer: We could probably shorten the file name to backup_config_virt or something along those lines

> [#configure-virtualization]

Reviewer: I'm always for short anchors but this might be too general, perhaps `config-backup-virt`? Since anchors must be unique, something as general as configure virt might end up being used in multiple places.

Reviewer 2: I actually think we need to me more specific here. We are using policies, and that is an important detail. It's in the title but not the filename. We get in to this a bit in the writing checklist:

https://stolostron.github.io/rhacm-docs/checklist

I would have the file name, anchor, and ID created so that intuitively when you look at the source, you can find the content.

#backup-config-policy-virt (or similar) and then also change the file name to reflect backup_config_policy_virt.adoc

= Configuring backup and restore for {ocp-virt} using {acm} policies

Use the {acm-short} backup and restore component to install {acm-short} policies that can be used to backup and restore the {ocp-virt-short} resources. With these policies, you can backup and restore virtual machines by using OpenShift APIS for Data Protection (OADP). After you back up the virtual machines, you can run and restore it on the hub cluster or managed clusters. 

> These {acm-short} policies for {ocp-virt-short} supports the following backup and restore storage options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These {acm-short} policies for {ocp-virt-short} support the following backup and restore storage options:
```

* Container Storage Interface (CSI) backups
* Container Storage Interface (CSI) backups with DataMover

They do not support the following options: 

* File system backup and restore
* Volume snapshot backups and restores

To configure the policies, and either enable a backup schedule or run a restore operation for a virtual machine, complete the following sections: 

* <<backing-up-restoring-vm, Backing up and restoring a virtual machine>>
* <<understanding-policies, Understanding _PolicySets_ and policies>>
* <<configuring-policies, Configuring policies with ConfigMap>>
* <<using-restore-policy, Using restore policies for restore operations>> 

[#backing-up-restoring-vm]
== Backing up and restoring a virtual machine

You can back up virtual machines that run on a cluster or restore a virtual machine on a cluster by completing the following steps: 

> . Enable the backup component on the hub cluster by going to the `MultiClusterHub` and setting the `cluster-backup` parameter to `true`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enable the backup component on the hub cluster by setting the `cluster-backup` parameter in `MultiClusterHub` to `true`.
```

. To place the policies on this cluster, add the `acm-virt-config` label to the `cluster-name` of the `ManagedCluster` resource by using the following YAML sample: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: ManagedCluster
metadata:
 name: cluster-name
 labels:
   acm-virt-config: acm-dr-virt-config <1>
----
<1> The `acm-dr-virt-config` that passes through the label annotation, is a `acm-virt-config` ConfigMap. Read the `acm-dr-virt-config` ConfigMap section to understand how to configure OADP and backup storage location.

> . Complete the following steps based off whether you want to backup or restore your virtual machine: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Complete the following steps, depending on whether you want to backup or restore your virtual machine: 
```

> .. Back up your virtual machine by adding the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup-vm` to the `kubevirt.io.VirtualMachine` resource. Your `kubevirt.io.VirtualMachine` resource should look like the following YAML sample:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Back up your virtual machine by adding the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup-vm` to the `kubevirt.io.VirtualMachine` resource. Your `kubevirt.io.VirtualMachine` resource might resemble the following YAML sample:  
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: vm-name
  labels:
    cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup-vm: daily_8am
----

> .. Restore your virtual machine by updating the `acm-dr-restore-config` ConfigMAp as describe in the `acm-dr-virt-restore-config` section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Restore your virtual machine by updating the `acm-dr-restore-config` ConfigMap as described in the `acm-dr-virt-restore-config` section. 
```

[#understanding-policies]
== Understanding _PolicySets_ and policies 

> When you enable the backup operator, a set of {acm} policies and ConfigMaps, get installed on the hub cluster. When you disable the policy or remove it from the cluster, all the resources the policy created gets removed. To learn more, complete the following sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable the backup operator, a set of {acm} policies and ConfigMaps are installed on the hub cluster. When you disable the policy or remove it from the cluster, all the resources that the policy created are removed. To learn more, complete the following sections:
```

* <<understanding-intall-policy, Understanding the install policy>>
* <<understanding-backup-policy, Understanding the backup policy>>

> * <<understanding-restore-policy, Understanding the restore policy>> 

Reviewer: I don't think we've ever added additional index lists mid file, apart from the list we add after the intro. I would probably remove it.

Reviewer 2: Also, requesting that we not use "using" and define more what the procedure is in the titles.

[#understanding-intall-policy]
=== Understanding the install policy

> The install policy installs OADP and configures the `oadp.openshift.io.DataProtectionApplication` resource on the cluster where this policy is placed. If the cluster is a hub cluster, it verifies that OADP is installed in the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace and that the `DataProtectionApplication` resource exists and has the required configuration. The policy does not attempt to install OADP or create the `DataProtectionApplication` resource on the hub cluster. When you enable the `cluster-backup` option on the `MultiClusterHub` resource, the backup chart installs the OADP. When you enable the `cluster-backup-option`, you create the `DataProtectionApplication` on the hub cluster.

Reviewer: Long paragraph, I'd recommend breaking it up

Reviewer 2: Let's not use "understanding" because that is given that they are reading to understand.

It's just conceptual info. Also, remember a while ago I brought up not using "install" as a verb. I posted about it and pointed to the IBM Style manual. If the team is using this term to name the policy, let me know. 

You can look this up in the manual...it is very much worth having that bookmarked for when engineers give you install as a noun. It comes up often and I always push back:

https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage

To understand the install policy, see the following table:

. Install policy templates
|===
| Template | Description 
| `check-config-file`| 
* Verifies that  the ConfigMap defined by the `acm-virt-config` label set on the `ManagedCluster` resource exists on the hub, in the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace. 
| `check-oadp-channel` | 

> * Verifies if there is an OADP version installed on the cluster, and that it matches the version installed by the policy.

Author: I was hoping it was just in the ADOC extension that the table didn't render the bullet list. However, in the GitHub extension, it doesn't render a bullet list either. 

I'll do some workarounds, but if Doc reviewers know how to document a bullet list in a table, please let me know, thanks :)

Reviewer: I don't think we are supposed to use bullet points within tables, which is probably why it doesn't work. Not aware of any explicit ruling in IBM style about that, but I'd recommend just converting to sentences/short paragraphs. We've had tables with descriptions that are 2 or 3 sentences long, so it's fine to just do that.

Reviewer 2: It does go in to keeping tables simple for LLM: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=medium-writing-llm-consumability

I do think, however, and this is before we started peer reviewing as mandatory, that a couple have done this but we cleaned it up. 

Tables have to be super concise, so instead of bullets here, we just have sentences as concise as possible. So let's remove them. 

(Given there are only two columns, in the future, something like this should maybe just be a definition list and not a table. We have a mix of both bc folks are on their own program here lol. I will bring it up after GA so we have some kind of parameters when to create a table and when to use a list.)

| `check-dpa-config` | 
* Verifies that the `DataProtectionApplication` resource exists, has the expected configuration, and has a status of `Reconciled`. 
* Verifies that the `BackupStorageLocation`  exists and has a status phase `Available`.
| `install-oadp-copy-config`| 
* Creates the namespace where OADP gets installed, if this namespace is not found. 
* Copies the OADP secret and installs OADP, but only for managed clusters. 
* Creates the `DataProtectionApplication` resource as defined by the `acm-virt-config` label, but only for the managed clusters. Does not create the `DataPotectionApplication` . The user must manually create it on the hub cluster. 
|===

[#understanding-backup-policy]
=== Understanding the backup policy

Backs up the `kubevirt.io.VirtualMachine`  resources that has the label, `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup-vm: schedule_cron_name`. 

To learn more, see the following table: 

. Backup policy templates 
|===
| Template | Description 
| `check-cron-schedule-valid`| 

> * Creates a violation error if there is any cron schedule name used by a virtual machine `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup-vm` label which is not found in the ConfigMap for the cron schedules. 

Reviewer: Same for the rest of the tables, I'd either convert to normal sentences (they can still follow the verb + subject structure), or you can convert to a bullet list that lists each item, with sub-bullets for the description.

See the following example: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.13_stage/governance/grc_arch.adoc

I would also double check if this is info that needs to be presented in an arch file instead of in a procedure file.

Reviewer 2: Agree, we can discuss in a meeting how best to handle these situations. We have gotten feedback before about dense tables but we have been too busy to address it.

| `check-velero-restore-status`| 
* Verifies that the restore resource with the name defined by the `clusterID_restoreName` property exists and has a status of `Completed`. 
| `create-velero-restore`| 
* If the `clusterID_restoreName` property value is not empty, and the `clusterID` matches this cluster UID, it creates a velero restore resources using the properties defined with the ConfigMap identified by the `restore_hub_config_name` .
* Creates the velero restore resource only if the `acm-dr-virt-install`  policy is compliant.
|===

[#configuring-policies]
== Configuring policies with ConfigMaps 

When you install the policies on the hub cluster, the following ConfigMaps are created on the hub cluster, in the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace. When you place the virtualization policies on the hub or managed cluster, these ConfigMaps define the backup and restore configuration for the virtualization policies. 

To learn more about the types of ConfigMaps you can use, complete the following sections: 

* <<using-virt-config-configmap, Using the _acm-dr-virt-config_ ConfigMap>>
* <<using-virt-schedule-configmap, Using the _acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron_ ConfigMap>>

> * <<using-virt-restore-configmap, Using the _acm-dr-virt-restore-config_ ConfigMap>>

Reviewer: Same as before, I'd recommend leaving this out. You can still keep the sentence that precedes this index

[#using-virt-config-configmap]
=== Using the _acm-dr-virt-config_ ConfigMap

The `acm-dr-virt-config` ConfigMap defines the OADP configuration and other settings related to the backup or restore operation. You can use the name of this resource as the value for the `acm-virt-config` label which is set on the `ManagedCluter` where the policies are placed. You can also create a new ConfigMap that uses the `acm-dr-virt-config` as a sample, then use this new ConfigMap to place the virtualization policies on the cluster.

To place the virtualization policies on a managed cluster or hub cluster, complete the following steps: 

> . Use the `acm-dr-virt-config` or create a new ConfigMap on the hub, under the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace, by using the `acm-dr-virt-config` ConfigMap as an example. For this example, the name is  `ConfigMap` `acm-dr-virt-config-new`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the `acm-dr-virt-config` or create a new ConfigMap on the hub cluster in the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace, by using the `acm-dr-virt-config` ConfigMap as an example. For this example, the name is  `ConfigMap` `acm-dr-virt-config-new`.
```

> .. Update the  `dpa_spec` section to match the storage location where you plan to store the backups created by OADP. This is a required update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Update the `dpa_spec` section to match the storage location where you want to store the backups created by OADP. This is a required update.
```

> .. Update other properties available with the `acm-dr-virt-config-new` ConfigMap, such as OADP version or channel. This is an optional update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. *Optional:* Update other properties available with the `acm-dr-virt-config-new` ConfigMap, such as OADP version or channel.
```

| `dpa_spec`| Valid JSON defining the `DataProtectionApplication` spec when created on the managed cluster.| JSON | None| No
|===

. `acm-dr-virt-config` ConfigMap Properties used by the `acm-dr-virt-backup` policy
|===
| Name | Description | Type | Default value | Optional 
| `scheduleTTL`|Backup expiration time.| String |`24h0m0s`| Yes
| `schedule_paused`| Set to `True` to pause the virtualization backup schedule. | String | False | Yes
| `schedule_hub_config_name`| Name of the ConfigMap used to define the valid cron jobs schedules. A ConfigMap with this name must exist on the hub in the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace.| String | None| Yes
|===

. `acm-dr-virt-config` ConfigMap Properties used by the `acm-dr-virt-restore` policy
|===
| Name | Description | Type | Default value | Optional 
| `restore_hub_config_name`| Name of the ConfigMap used to define the restore operation. A ConfigMap with this name must exist on the hub in the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace| String | None | No
|===

[#using-virt-schedule-configmap]
=== Using the _acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron_ ConfigMap

> Use the `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron`  ConfigMap to define the valid cron job schedules to be used when scheduling a virtual machine backup. The  `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` ConfigMap is created by the hub backup component,  under the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace and includes the following YAML: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` ConfigMap to define the valid cron job schedules to be used when scheduling a virtual machine backup. The `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` ConfigMap is created by the hub cluster backup component in the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace and includes the following YAML: 
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
        name: acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron
        namespace: open-cluster-management-backup
    data:
        hourly: "0 */1 * * *"
        every_2_hours: "0 */2 * * *"
        every_3_hours: "0 */3 * * *"
        every_4_hours: "0 */4 * * *"
        every_5_hours: "0 */5 * * *"
        every_6_hours: "0 */6 * * *"
        twice_a_day: "0 */12 * * *"
        daily_8am: "0 8 * * *"
        every_sunday: "0 0 * * 0"
----

You can use any of the schedules by the `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` ConfigMap to set the backup schedule for a `kubevirt.io.VirtualMachine`. For example, if you want to backup a virtual machine every day at 8am, add the following label to the virtual machine resource:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: vm-name
  labels:
    cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup-vm: daily_8am
----

> Since this `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` ConfigMap was created and is managed by the hub backup component, you cannot change any of the existing cron properties or delete them. The properties get recreated when the content is reconciled. You can only add new properties to the existing ones. For example, if you want to create a cron job to run every Saturday, add the following label  to the existing `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` properties: `every_sunday: "0 0 * * SAT"`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` ConfigMap was created and is managed by the hub backup component, you cannot change any of the existing cron properties or delete them. The properties are recreated when the content is reconciled. You can only add new properties to the existing ones. For example, if you want to create a cron job to run every Saturday, add the following label  to the existing `acm-dr-virt-schedule-cron` properties: `every_sunday: "0 0 * * SAT"`. 
```

[#using-virt-restore-configmap]
=== Using the _acm-dr-virt-restore-config_ ConfigMap

Use the `acm-dr-virt-restore-config` ConfigMap to define the restore operations to be executed by the `acm-dr-virt-restore` policy. The ConfigMap is created by the hub backup component, under the `open-cluster-management-backup` namespace. 

For an example of a complete restore operation, see the following YAML sample:

[source,yaml]
----
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
 name: acm-dr-virt-restore-config
 namespace: open-cluster-management-backup
data:

>  2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7_backupName: acm-rho-virt-schedule-every-10-hours-20250120230438 <1> and <2>

Author: Seems to me that the 1 and 2 callout are on this same line?

Reviewer 3: @jc-berger <1> and <2> should be on the same line, it's fine as it is

<1> explains the 2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7 value
and <2> the name of the backup

Reviewer 3: If you have a lint error because of both being on the same line, you can sqeeze 1+2 in <1> and give an explanation for both values in the same context. @jc-berger 
For example : 
2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7_backupName: acm-rho-virt-schedule-every-10-hours-20250120230438 <1>

<1> `2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7` is the clusterId where the restore must be completed and 
`acm-rho-virt-schedule-every-10-hours-20250120230438` is the name of the backup to be used for the restore operation.

 2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7_restoreName: restore-20250120230438 <3> 
 2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7_vmsUID: 2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7 <4> 
----
<1> `2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7` is the clusterId where the restore must be completed.
<2> `acm-rho-virt-schedule-every-10-hours-20250120230438` is the name of the backup to be used for the restore operation. 
<3> `restore-20250120230438` is the name of the restore resource created as a result of this restore operation.
<4>  `2a054d24-3235-4249-9c81-f58ebc6110c7` is the UID of the VM backed up with the acm-rho-virt-schedule-every-10-hours-20250120230438 backup to be restored. 

> [#using-restore-policy]
> == Using restore policies for restore operations 
> When you install virtualization policies for your restore operations, consider the following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[#using-restore-policy]
== Using restore policies for restore operations

When you install virtualization policies for your restore operations, consider the following scenarios:
```

[#configure-virtualization]
= Configuring backup and restore for {ocp-virt} using {acm} policies

> Use the {acm-short} backup and restore component to install {acm-short} policies that can be used to backup and restore the {ocp-virt-short} resources. With these policies, you can backup and restore virtual machines by using OpenShift APIS for Data Protection (OADP). After you back up the virtual machines, you can run and restore it on the hub cluster or managed clusters. 

Reviewer 2: Great short description!
